README.md, before:

# vhost-device

## Design

This repository hosts various 'vhost-user' device backends in their own crates.
See their individual README.md files for specific information about those
crates.

Here is the list of device backends that we support:

- [GPIO](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/blob/main/crates/gpio/README.md)
- [I2C](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/blob/main/crates/i2c/README.md)
- [RNG](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/blob/main/crates/rng/README.md)
- [VSOCK](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/blob/main/crates/vsock/README.md)

## Testing and Code Coverage

Like the wider rust-vmm project we expect new features to come with
comprehensive code coverage. However as a multi-binary repository
there are cases where avoiding a drop in coverage can be hard and an
exception to the approach is allowable. These are:

* adding a new binary target (aim at least 60% overall coverage)
* expanding the main function (a small drop is acceptable)

However any new feature added to an existing binary should not cause a
drop in coverage. The general aim should be to always improve
coverage.

## Separation of Concerns

The binaries built by this repository can be run with any VMM which
can act as a vhost-user frontend. Typically they have been tested with
[QEMU](https://www.qemu.org) although the rust-vmm project does
provide a [vhost-user
frontend](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost/tree/main/src/vhost_user)
crate for rust based VMMs.

While it's possible to implement all parts of the backend inside the
vhost-device workspace consideration should be given to separating the
VirtQueue handling and response logic to a crate in [vm-virtio
devices](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vm-virtio/tree/main/crates/devices).
This way a monolithic rust-vmm VMM implementation can reuse the core
logic to service the virtio requests directly in the application.

## Build dependency

The GPIO crate needs a local installation of libgpiod library to be available,
which can be done like:

$ git clone --depth 1 --branch v2.0-rc1 https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/libs/libgpiod/libgpiod.git/
$ cd libgpiod
$ ./autogen.sh && make

Either you can do a 'make install' now on your system, or provide path to the
locally build library like this while building vhost-device crates:

$ RUSTFLAGS='-L /home/<username>/libgpiod/lib/.libs/'  cargo build --release

Commit message:

README: update the documentation on libgpio
Make it clear this is a temporary measure until packagers catch up.
Properly indent the code examples to render properly. Mention tweaking
.cargo/config to keep tooling happy and finally make sure we also
mention LD_LIBRARY_PATH.

Signed-off-by: Alex Bennée <alex.bennee@linaro.org>

README.md, after:

# vhost-device

## Design

This repository hosts various 'vhost-user' device backends in their own crates.
See their individual README.md files for specific information about those
crates.

Here is the list of device backends that we support:

- [GPIO](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/blob/main/crates/gpio/README.md)
- [I2C](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/blob/main/crates/i2c/README.md)
- [RNG](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/blob/main/crates/rng/README.md)
- [VSOCK](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/blob/main/crates/vsock/README.md)

## Testing and Code Coverage

Like the wider rust-vmm project we expect new features to come with
comprehensive code coverage. However as a multi-binary repository
there are cases where avoiding a drop in coverage can be hard and an
exception to the approach is allowable. These are:

* adding a new binary target (aim at least 60% overall coverage)
* expanding the main function (a small drop is acceptable)

However any new feature added to an existing binary should not cause a
drop in coverage. The general aim should be to always improve
coverage.

## Separation of Concerns

The binaries built by this repository can be run with any VMM which
can act as a vhost-user frontend. Typically they have been tested with
[QEMU](https://www.qemu.org) although the rust-vmm project does
provide a [vhost-user
frontend](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost/tree/main/src/vhost_user)
crate for rust based VMMs.

While it's possible to implement all parts of the backend inside the
vhost-device workspace consideration should be given to separating the
VirtQueue handling and response logic to a crate in [vm-virtio
devices](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vm-virtio/tree/main/crates/devices).
This way a monolithic rust-vmm VMM implementation can reuse the core
logic to service the virtio requests directly in the application.

## Build dependency

Until it appears in distribution developer packages the GPIO crate needs a
local installation of libgpiod library to be available, which can be
done like:

    $ git clone --depth 1 --branch v2.0-rc1 https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/libs/libgpiod/libgpiod.git/
    $ cd libgpiod
    $ ./autogen.sh && make

Either you can do a 'make install' now on your system, or provide path to the
locally build library like this while building vhost-device crates:

    $ RUSTFLAGS='-L /home/<username>/libgpiod/lib/.libs/'  cargo build --release

Because `.cargo/config` is under version control you can create a
`../.cargo/config` above your checkout with:

    [build]
    rustflags = ["-L", "/home/<username>/libgpiod/lib/.libs/"]

so the setting is propagated to any tooling that might be building stuff in the background.

To run the binary (including for `cargo test`) you will need to ensure
it can link to those local libraries:

    env LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/home/<username>/libgpiod/lib/.libs cargo test
